So Object,
this capital O Object is a pretty special
object in JavaScript,
it has a no prototype.
So what is the deal?
Ever seen this string before, square,
bracket lowercase object,
capital Object, square bracket?
It's a common, I don't know how
many random airline websites or
whatever, no shade on anybody who works
for airlines, [LAUGH] but you know.
Random websites around the world, where,
some thing didn't work out as
it should and I see this string,
object Object, and it's like,
welcome object Object.
And I'm like, [LAUGH] that's
a little objectifying but okay.
So, and as the, again,
I haven't been on Twitter and
the artist formerly known
as Twitter in a long time.
But there was a classic tweet of like,
if you wanna mess with your friends,
set your profile name to object Object and
all your developer friends will
just get totally nerd sniped trying
to figure out what's going on, but
really you just hard-coded the string.
So anyway, the, if we call the two
string method on the prototype of
the prototype of the engines array,
we get this string.
And now we're getting into,
where do we find these
properties from these objects?
If we have an object,
That is just super random,
but we'll call it objectina and
is she a genie in the bottle?
Yes, the capital O, Object.entries
method is a convenient way to enumerate
some of the properties of
an object in JavaScript.
And in general,
this will be pretty similar to what I
declared this object to have.
In the case of Object.entries,
what it returns is
an array with the key value
pairs captured by this object.
So the key is the property name and
the value is its value.
So the first entity in this
array is an array with name and
then objectina, and
then the second entity is isGenie true,
and so on and so
forth if I had a much longer object.
So like a fun game would be calling
Object.entries on navigator,
let's say, or anything else that's fun
in the global scope of your console.
Now, if I have my little obj and
I try to access the toString property,
I get a return value that evaluates to
a function that is called toString.
Okay, but I didn't write a toString
property in my objectina object,
so what is the deal here?
And that's where the .hasOwnProperty
method comes in, is it can differentiate,
am I, Getting this value for
this property from the object itself?
Because if JavaScript looks for
.toString on obj,
and it only finds name and isGenie, and
there's no toString,
it's gonna look up the prototype
chain to whatever the prototype of obj is.
And if it finds a toString there,
it's gonna use that value as if
it were objectina's own value.
But the property doesn't belong to obj,
it belongs to the prototype of obj and
so hasOwnProperty,
like this is my own,
as a tiny little objectina that I am,
my own property toString does not exists.
It does not have its own property.
However, it does have this
property in every sense of
the word because of the prototype chain.
Because JavaScript keeps looking up and
up and up and
up the prototype chain until it finds
a correspondingly named property or
it goes all the way to the end,
all the way to the top of the food
chain which is object Object and
it doesn't find that,
Property.
And then it says, I don't know what
you're talking about, that's not a thing,
reference or I don't have it,
there's no such thing.
So, in this case,
if we call .toString on our obj,
on many, many, many other objs out there,
we will get our prototype to end all
prototypes implementation of toString,
which is to return the extremely
helpful string, object Object.
And I think this is one that's caused
a lot of the JavaScript community
great harm and trauma, so we're all
healing as we go, we're working on it.
But at least understanding why this
happens is hopefully the first step in
the right direction.
So yes, so
going back to our map confusion of like,
why did for of work on both,
but map didn't work on both?
Well, because .map is not
a universal property or
in this case method,
because it's a function.
It's not universal to
every JavaScript object.
It is actually implemented
by the Array object,
capital A Array,
which is the prototype for
all other arrays,
which is why our engines.map worked.
But HTMLCollection,
which was the kind of group of things that
our element.children gave us,
that's not an array.
It doesn't have array anywhere
up to the prototype chain, and
it doesn't implement a .map property,
so there is no such thing.
So this is just shedding a little bit
of light on what happened before,
but this still might be
asking the question,
but then how did the for-of work?
Because is it not just calling,
top map under the hood or what?
So, I felt compelled to include
this face meme which I personally
make it my computer,
most days if not all days, yeah, same?
Same, yeah.
All right, so
let us ponder that question for a moment.